Diallo Wallace
Diallo Wallace founded The Engineering and Science
Academy (TESA), focusing on pre-college engineering
education, with a high school curriculum aligned to
university-level expectations. He is a California and
Maryland State Credentialed Teacher in Career Technical
Education (CTE) with experience teaching aviation and
engineering to youth. Diallo has earned a Bachelor of Science
in Electronics Engineering and a Bachelor of Arts in
Mathematics from the University of Illinois. At the graduate
level, he has attained a Master of Science in Astronautical
Engineering from the Naval Postgraduate School and a Master of
Project Management from Keller Graduate School. He is currently
pursuing a Ph.D. in Engineering Education at Purdue University
with a dissertation focus on the
benefits of interweaving physics
first and engineering curriculums
for student self-efficacy in
engineering. He has presented to
The American Society of
Engineering Education (ASEE)
on the gains of incorporating
computation and computer
programming in K-12 curriculums. He has presented at NASA’s
Space Exploration Educators Conference (SEEC) on ways to
implement the engineering design process for pre-college students
and also how the crew of Apollo 13 was saved through geometry.
Diallo developed and wrote a pre-college science and engineering
curriculum that spans 6th to 12th grade. The middle school
curriculum focuses on developing pre-engineering/science literacy,
skills, and knowledge. The high school curriculum was approved
by the University of California A-G program, recognizing the
courses preparation of students for scientific or science-related
studies at the university level. His passion is empowering K-12
and undergraduate students to understand science and engineering
through the application of mathematics. Diallo is an Analog
Astronaut participating in spacesuit evaluations at the University
of North Dakota’s Inflatable Lunar and Mars Habitat (ILMAH)
and was Mission Commander at the Flashline Mars Arctic
Research Station on Devon Island. He is also a member of NASA’s
Airborne Astronomy Ambassador program, where he flew aboard the
SOFIA 747 flying telescope aircraft during a weeklong data collection
effort. Diallo is also a very proud alumnus of Space Camp, actively
encouraging teachers and students to attend the program. He has
been inducted into the Space Camp Hall of Fame for 2025.
In his military capacity, Diallo is a Naval Aviator and
Aerospace Engineering Duty Officer in the NAVAIR RESERVE
PROGRAM (NRP). He served in the Department of Aerospace Engineering at the United
States Naval Academy, instructing aeronautics, astronautics, and MATLAB Computer
programming courses. He was the Officer Representative of the 1000-member Naval Academy
Flight Training Squadron (VTNA), where he trained and mentored midshipmen for flight
school. Diallo routinely presents to youth and teachers about space and aviation as an active
volunteer of the Naval Academy’s STEM Center for Education and Outreach.
His reserve tours include serving as Assistant Officer in Charge (OIC) for Naval Reserve (NR)
Flight Test Augmentation Unit, Executive Officer (XO) of NR Joint Functional
Component Commander for Space, and Administration Officer for NR Rapid Research and
Development Unit. He is a member of the Defense Acquisition Corps, earning a Level III in
Program Management, and has attained the highest level of AQD for Space Acquisitions and
Space Operations. He has served at Johnson Space Center’s Astronaut Office supporting the
International Space Station.
Serving as an Associate Fellow for The Chief of Naval Operations Strategic Studies Group
XXIV , he also earned Joint Professional Military Education Level I. He has been awarded the
Military Outstanding Volunteer Service Medal for his work teaching aviation to youth. His other
decorations consist of the Global War on Terrorism Service Medals, National Defense Service
Medal, Sea Service Deployment Ribbon, and the Armed Forces Expeditionary Medal, Naval
Unit Commendation, and the Navy Achievement Medal.